>> GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You know it's
called the Hat Man.
Now, you might be saying,
now what is this all about?
Heidi Hollis with us,
expert on shadow people.
And now the Hat Man?
What are we talking about here?
>> HEIDI HOLLIS: Indeed,
the Hat Man, oh my gosh.
When I had first started talking
about the topic of shadow
people, I initially
called this phenomenon
the Hat Man shadow phenomenon.
I thought it was just
part of the same--
>> NOORY: One in the same.
>> HOLLIS: Yes, I truly did.
But I did something.
I put all these different
forms of shadow people
up on my website,
heidihollis.com.
And I started getting
responses, and oh, I've
seen the shadow cloud.
I've seen the head
and shoulder shadow.
But the responses I got
to the Hat Man shadow
were way different.
And wow, and I saw the
pattern emerge to a point
that it terrified me.
I didn't want to address it.
I didn't want to look at it.
I didn't want to-- I just
didn't want to touch the topic.
Now, what had
initially occurred,
and I had not seen him.
My college roommate and
I, who had experienced
a lot of odd
things-- alien beings
coming our way, positive aliens,
negative aliens, shadow people,
and then this Hat Man
thing showed up to her.
OK, so I would often
hear her screaming
in the middle of the
night and, you know,
that something's in her room,
and I used to go running
and go and check
and see if she's OK.
But that was just her response
to something coming in her face
she didn't recognize.
So she wasn't ever really
absolutely terrorized
or terrified.
Well, this one night I heard
gut-wrenching screaming.
I was sure somebody
was killing her.
>> NOORY: Oh my.
>> HOLLIS: And I mean, I can't
even tell you I just bolted.
I ran to her room.
And I mean, I was panting.
I turned the lights on.
I'm expecting to see
I don't know what.
And she was backed into a
corner, and she was panting,
and she was just pointing
and just trembling.
And I said what?
What is going on?
She was like, the man.
He just disappeared, just
before you walked into the door.
And I said, what man?
And she described this man
in a three-piece black suit
with a chain watch on his
hip, saw this gaucho type
black hat with a trench coat.
And she said she
saw he had a goatee
and his eyes were solid black,
and a very pointed nose,
very pointed chin.
And she said, I screamed,
and he did not move.
I was yelling at him.
He did not move.
She said, I don't know what
was going on, what he was.
She said he was so solid.
But again, I had categorized
it as a shadow thing.
I had not experienced him.
But then when I started
getting these emails and people
were describing the clothing,
the hat-- the different hats.
They weren't always
this gaucho hat.
Sometimes it was a fedora.
Sometimes it was a top hat.
That's probably the second
most common one is the top hat.
And George, you're
going to a kick
out of this one, cowboy hat.
>> NOORY: Cowboy hats.
>> HOLLIS: Cowboy hat.
>> NOORY: Now, do all
shadow people wear hats?
Or are all hat
people shadow people?
>> HOLLIS: That's a
good question there.
The interesting thing, he's
not a shadow person at all.
He is a total separate entity.
>> NOORY: Something else.
>> HOLLIS: He is something else.
He is not-- I mean, darkness--
>> NOORY: Is he solid?
>> HOLLIS: He is solid.
He is a solid entity.
Now, I have had reports
from people who describe him
as being all in a black shadow,
but he's got distinctive edges.
And you don't see through him.
No, some people, I think
sometimes when he's forming,
people can kind of
see through him.
And I think he can go
in between dimensions.
So he can look like
that sometimes,
but for the most part
he's a pretty solid guy.
>> NOORY: Now,
what does he want?
>> HOLLIS: Well, what's
fascinating about him,
he just stares at people.
And one time, when I was
speaking to you prior,
you talked about the boogeyman
coming out of the closet,
I don't know what it is with
this guy, but he loves closets.
He loves hanging out in them.
He likes walking out of them.
He likes walking back into them.
His intimidation
is his presence.
For the most part,
he's a being that-- I'm
suspicious that he does
call upon other forces
to do his dirty deeds.
>> NOORY: Doesn't
do them himself.
>> HOLLIS: He does not
generally do it himself.
But he has at times
choked people,
similar to a shadow person.
>> NOORY: So there is
some physical violence.
>> HOLLIS: There can be
I've had people
say he shoves them.
What's really rare, he
does speak sometimes.
Now, the shadow
people-- separate
beings-- they rarely speak.
Sometimes they growl.
Sometimes they say things.
>> NOORY: This one speaks.
>> HOLLIS: Yes, this
guy, he will talk.
>> NOORY: What does he say?
>> HOLLIS: Wow, it just
gives me chills, because he--
>> NOORY: And is he guttural?
[GROWLS]
>> HOLLIS: He can be, but
sometimes down to a whisper.
And he kind of acknowledges
that he's as bad as they come.
And one gentleman told
me about this scenario
that he saw appear on his wall.
And he saw waves and
a storm going on.
And he's like, what
am I looking at?
This is on my wall.
And Hat Man came up behind
him, and a ship showed up
on this stormy water, and
there was a guy on the ship.
He could see him, and the
ship started to go down.
And the guy went down with
the ship, like proudly almost.
And hat man said, such a man
would do the same for me.
>> NOORY: Whoa.
>> HOLLIS: Yes, and I'm
like, he gives these riddles,
but his indication is that he
is where the buck stops when it
comes to negativity.
But this one other
time, I had a gentleman
that told me that he
introduced himself as Scratch.
And that's an Old Norse
term for the devil.
So is he the devil?
Is there just one of them?
It's different for me
to get these reports
and to distinguish, is this
the same guy sometimes.
Because sometimes
his eyes glow red.
Other times they're solid black.
Sometimes he has a goatee.
Sometimes he's clean shaven.
>> NOORY: You think it's the
same entity in this case?
>> HOLLIS: This is what
is-- it's kind of puzzling.
And I'm still researching
it, because it
is something that is so
absolutely bizarre that it's
hard to put my finger on
exactly if it's the one guy.
I've had people see him with
shadow people next to him.
That has happened.
But I think darkness
is darkness.
I think they're
kind of in cahoots,
but then do you know
a band of thieves
that ever worked well together?
I don't think they work
very well together.
I think that this guy
sometimes calls upon them,
and they kind of do
his bidding sometimes.
But to say for sure
that it's just the one,
he's not seen with others.
He's usually by himself.
You don't see a whole string--
>> NOORY: How tall is he?
>> HOLLIS: --of hat men.
He's quite tall.
He's usually 7 feet
to 10 feet tall.
>> NOORY: Oh, wow.
>> HOLLIS: He's huge.
He's absolutely huge.
And you know, I would get
these reports, and they said,
a tall hat man.
I'm like, a tall hat man,
tell me how tall this guy is.
And I started getting
crazy reports.
I had one gentleman tell me he
saw him going down a street,
and he was like 20 feet tall.
He was humongous.
And I'm like--
>> NOORY: Going down the street.
>> HOLLIS: Walking
down the street.
He's often seen walking away.
>> NOORY: Nighttime, daytime?
>> HOLLIS: It doesn't matter.
Honestly it doesn't matter.
He is seen more often
at night, but he's
seen at any time of day.
>> NOORY: Is he ever seen in
the back seat of your car?
>> HOLLIS: Why do
you ask that, George?
Is there something
you'd like to share?
>> NOORY: No, it's just
that I think he would be.
>> HOLLIS: That is actually
something that has happened.
It happened to a sister of mine.
And this is the scenario,
because I had just
put up my website
that showed him.
And I'm telling my sister,
hey, you've got to see this.
I want to show you
my new website.
And she's like, Heidi,
I experienced something.
I don't even know
what to think of it.
And I'm like, oh,
and here's my site.
And I pull it up, and
she screams, that's him.
I'm like, what are
you talking about?
That's the guy.
She went down her
stairs to-- this
will give you chills--
to go get her laundry,
and he rose up from
behind the dryer,
huge, 7 feet tall or
whatever, and leaning over.
She said, I don't think I
touched a stair going up.
And then the next day,
she gets into her car.
She looks into her
rear-view mirror.
He was in the backseat, and
he had glowing red eyes.
Another time, myself, I
got into my friend's car.
She adjusted her mirror.
He was is in the backseat.
>> NOORY: Strangling her.
>> HOLLIS: Yeah, right.
Why is he doing this?
Why is he showing up?
He's doing it on purpose.
So is he feeding off the fear?
I don't think so.
I honestly believe he's
marking his territory.
>> NOORY: Tell me the difference
that you think are between
the shadow people
and this Hat Man.
>> HOLLIS: The
distinction between them,
the shadow people, I mean, they
try to get those gut reactions.
They try to choke people.
They try to scare people.
They try to trap souls
in certain areas.
They do.
They scatter about,
taking different forms.
This guy comes as he is.
He doesn't try to
hide who he is either.
I think that forms, different
forms, are taken to think,
oh I just saw a bat go by
me, or a bug, or something.
It's like you just
don't know what you saw.
But this guy wants
to be recognized.
>> NOORY: And wants to hurt.
>> HOLLIS: He wants to harm.
Why is he showing he's got
the same essential duds?
Sometimes it looks like
a cape people describe,
but it's usually a trench coat.
But he wants people
to see the trend.
I'm here, and now I'm
here, and now I'm there.
And I'm watching you,
and I'm watching you,
and I'm doing the same
thing to all of you.
So what do you
think is going on?
>> NOORY: And you can't stop me.
>> HOLLIS: Exactly,
why is he doing this?
What's his point?
>> NOORY: What do
you think he is?
>> HOLLIS: I think he is the
most negative being out there.
I mean, people want to
call it Satan, the devil.
I think he is the culmination
of whatever is to come next.
>>NOORY: Why a hat?
What's he hiding?
>> HOLLIS: He's probably bald.
Just kidding, I don't know.
>> NOORY: Horns?
>> HOLLIS: You know,
that would be really,
really disturbing if
he had such a thing.
I haven't had anybody--
oh no, I take that back.
There have been a
couple of people
say that they did not
see a hat on his head.
But it's usually he's
so in the shadows
they don't see anything else.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> HOLLIS: But I even
had somebody write me--
you'll get a kick out of this.
Somebody wrote me and said that
he stole their Freddy Krueger
hat that they bought from
a store that was for the--
>> NOORY: The Hat
Man stole the hat.
>> HOLLIS: The Hat
So I'm like, wow, what is that?
>> NOORY: He'll put this on.
>> HOLLIS: He will put this on.
So why would he do that?
It disappeared.
It was gone.
And it was his
brother's, and he said,
I saw this guy come and take it.
He was wearing the suit, the
trench coat, and everything.
And he stole the
Freddy Krueger hat.
Now, my book on the hat
man is called The Hat Man.
And what's interesting
with the phenomenon of him
is that there's another
phenomenon going
on that's expanding
exponentially as well,
which are encounters with Jesus.
I wrote a book called
Jesus Is No Joke.
And it is essentially-- I mean,
I was a skeptic of such things.
And for myself to have
had four encounters
with seeing Jesus of something
that I was like, you know,
come on.
>> NOORY: So could the Hat
Man be the opposite of Jesus?
>> HOLLIS: You know what,
it's like going back to back.
I've had people have
both types of encounters,
seeing Jesus and the Hat Man.
Not together, but it seems
like Jesus is showing up
to people on his
side of the fence.
Hat Man is showing up to people
on his side of the fence.
If you've seen the Hat
Man, be a little worried.
Be a little worried.
I have not seen him.
I have not experienced him.
I think he gets
very close to me.
>> NOORY: But some
shadow people wear hats.
>> HOLLIS: Not
shadow people, no.
>> NOORY: They don't.
>> HOLLIS: They do not.
>> NOORY: OK, so
I've heard then--
and I've had a lot of calls
into "Coast to Coast"--
from people who claim to see
beings they've called shadow
people who are wearing hats.
>> HOLLIS: Mm-hmm.
>> NOORY: So you're saying
they're not shadow people.
>> HOLLIS: They are
not shadow people.
>> NOORY: It's the Hat Man.
>> HOLLIS: I've put
out apologies on that,
because I was trying to figure
out the phenomenon myself when
I first said Hat Man Shadow.
And I was calling him Hat
Man Shadow for a long time,
and then I'm like,
oh, he's not a shadow.
He's actually something worse,
and he's more distinctive.
And I know a lot of people
do confuse the topics.
But that was early stages for
me trying to solve and figure it
out myself.
And then there are
the hooded beings
that they say are
shadow people as well.
>> NOORY: It's like
the movie "Ghost."
>> HOLLIS: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Remember them?
>> HOLLIS: Yes, oh gosh, yeah.
>> NOORY: [GHOST NOISE].
>> HOLLIS: Yeah.
Those are not cool.
>> NOORY: They got
you at the end.
>> HOLLIS: But yeah, so the
hooded beings are an alien,
and they are dark.
And the alien beings
work hand in hand
with these shadow beings.
>> NOORY: Are they good, bad?
>> HOLLIS: The negative beings
that do abductions and whatnot
work with shadow people.
The more positive--
>> NOORY: Can't be good.
>> HOLLIS: No,
they are not good.
They're horrible.
But it's something that, when it
comes to this whole phenomenon,
when it comes to the
negative versus the positive,
I think it's important
that the only thing
that you can fight
fire with fire.
These things know
how bad they are.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> HOLLIS: And you can
feel their presence.
Why do our cells, very
cells in our body,
scream, oh, get out of the way.
Something's bad.
What's that gut reaction?
And that's why I
tell people, you
have to get that gut
reaction to be like,
I can push it away too.
And this is the book
that I was talking about.
>>NOORY: Let's see.
Oh, yeah.
>>HOLLIS: The Jesus
Is No Joke book.
>> NOORY: Jesus Is No Joke.
>> HOLLIS: Yes, and
this is my newest book.
This one is-- I've only
heard back from adults.
But it is a kids' book.
I will have an adult
version, but it's
to build faith,
the other F word.
>> NOORY: And of
course the Hat Man.
>> HOLLIS: And the Hat
Man, so this is Diary Blog
of the Fickle Finders.
But yeah, I mean, I
think it's important
that people build their faith
in order to repel these things,
because if you're
just standing there,
I mean, oh my gosh, some of the
people that have written me.
I swung at this thing, and we
started tussling on the floor.
This was a Hat Man.
This guy punched him, and he
got thrown up against the wall
and I guess essentially
knocked out.
>> NOORY: You
believe these people.
>> HOLLIS: You know,
that's so funny,
because a lot of people--
I'm actually an occupational
therapist.
I work with a lot
of psych people,
and emotionally disturbed,
and also physically
disabled people.
I know the distinctions between
what's diagnosable and whatnot.
But when it comes to this
topic, because I've personally
experienced an array
of strange things.
I'm the queen of
strange, I guess.
I'm not a psychic or
anything like that.
I'm a Christian, and I don't
hold onto crystals and whatnot.
But it's so much
a part of myself
now to have the faith that I do
in order to repel these things
and to pull everything
full circle with my faith.
And that's why I try
to tell people in order
to withstand the
coming times, I tell
people you have to be
able to close your eyes
and feel what's in front of you.
>> NOORY: Why do you seem
to be dabbling, though,
with this occult type thing?
Isn't that dangerous?
>> HOLLIS: You know, I
don't go looking for it.
And it doesn't
come to me anymore.
I'm able to block this stuff
off where my place is clear.
The problem comes when I'm
around others who will ask me
questions on these
things-- George--
and they tend to have--
>> NOORY: It's what
I do for a living.
>> HOLLIS: They
tend to have issues.
>> NOORY: Somebody's
got to do it.
>> HOLLIS: Yeah, I mean, I
was practicing as a therapist.
And that's what I
wanted to finish up.
I don't judge people
for what it is
they believe to be
true for themselves.
So when they tell me
one of their stories.
I take it for what it is.
But as a therapist--
>> NOORY: They believe it.
>> HOLLIS: Yeah,
they believe it.
It's like, I'm not going to sit
there and try to diagnose them.
But practicing as a
therapist, I don't always
advertise what it is I do.
I've had other fellow
therapists that like, hey.
They ask me questions.
This happened not too long ago.
15 minutes later,
one of my patients
is screaming out
in the therapy gym.
The Hat Man showed
up in the mirror.
So it comes in that
sense where it's
like, I have to tell people
and kind of educate them, like
if you want to talk about this,
you better put up your dukes
and protect yourself,
because they're listening.
And also what's important to
know is so is the good side.
Jesus encounters,
angel encounters,
I have book called Picture
Prayers on angelic encounters,
and how to know that
that's there too,
and having no doubts
in yourself and where
you stand in your
faith when you're
facing these horrible things.
So often I get people
who are writing
me who are ghost
hunters, and they're
challenging these things.
And I'm like, please
don't do that.
>> NOORY: Don't do that.
>> HOLLIS: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Don't dabble.
>> HOLLIS: And they're asking
me, how do I get rid of this?
I had a pretty well-known
psychic recently
come to me, writing
me saying, oh my gosh.
I have somebody coming to me
who has the Hat Man encounters.
I don't want him coming to me.
Can I send them to you?
And I'm like, I'm not a psychic.
But sure, I'll do my
best to give them advice.
>> NOORY: You're
becoming, though,
a specialist in this area.
Not a lot of people
dabble in this.
>> HOLLIS: No.
>> NOORY: So you're there.
You're a clinical person.
>> HOLLIS: Yes.
>> NOORY: And does
that help or hurt you?
>> HOLLIS: I think it helps,
because I am a people person,
and I do treat these topics as
I would with any other topic
in my life, as casual,
easygoing as I possibly can be
and keeping a sense of humor
about it without making fun
of it.
I try to essentially
make myself available.
I do give advice
oftentimes on these topics.
People write me.
I do it on my radio
show, just to try
to give on-the-level
advice and be as I am.
Because I'm somebody who's
been there, seen that,
experienced it, got
over it, wrote about it,
and now I'm trying to help other
people do the same darn thing.
Because it's so difficult
to be faced with this stuff,
and you can't turn to the
person next to you to say,
hey, look what happened.
What do I do about this?
And it breaks my heart
because those people,
if they keep getting laughed
at and their experiences--
>> NOORY: And they
do get laughed at.
>> HOLLIS: They
do, and it's sad.
But some of these
experience that I
get, that I talk to
people, they're gems.
They're something that could
probably change the whole world
if you heard it, but they've
kept it to themselves
because they're so fearful.
What was interesting to me,
I went to a UFO conference,
and I wasn't going
to lecture there.
But I had my book, Jesus
Is No Joke with me.
I said I'm not going
to lecture here.
My book is on Jesus encounters.
Do you know how many people?
I'm not kidding you.
21 people came up
to me and said,
you really got to talk then.
I had an experience
too with Jesus.
I'm like, what is going on here?
I'm at a UFO conference,
and these people have all
been having these
Jesus encounters,
but they've kept
it to themselves.
So guess what?
I lectured about Jesus
at a UFO conference.
And I'm like, well,
here we go, people.
Let's go down this road.
>> NOORY: And it worked.
>> HOLLIS: It did,
and people were open.
And I'm not talking about
being preachy religious.
I'm not like that.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> HOLLIS: Just, look,
this happened to me.
My faith was in me to
know that the bad is bad
and call on God for help.
But not to the
extent that I went.
I mean, it's been beautiful,
and it's been fun.
And as a prior
cartoonist, putting
my book, Diary Blog
of the Fickle Finders,
investigating the other
F word is for faith,
to try to get people to
look at faith with open arms
without being weird about it.
>> NOORY: Right, so let's
bring this back home to the hat
person for a moment.
Is this a spiritual encounter?
What is it?
>> HOLLIS: He's
physically coming,
but I think people's souls
are screaming to them that
something isn't right about
what's standing in front
of them.
And I think--
>> NOORY: Is he death?
>> HOLLIS: He's not death, no.
There's actually another
phenomenon I'm looking into.
I'm sure you've heard
of this Grim Reaper
looking type of guy.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> HOLLIS: Oh, I'm on it.
>> NOORY: I keep thinking
back to an old "Twilight Zone"
show with Robert Redford playing
the role of a wounded police
officer who talked his way into
the home of an old lady who was
convinced he was death
there to take her.
And I'm not going to give away
the end of the "Twilight Zone"
episode, but she was right.
>> HOLLIS: Oh really.
>> NOORY: And so death visits
people in different ways,
ways to comfort you,
maybe ways not to.
And there was an Anthony
Hopkins movie several years ago
where death visited him too.
And so that's
interesting, but you
don't think a hat
person is death.
>> HOLLIS: I don't
think he's death.
I think he is essentially
gathering the troops.
But again, there's
more to it, and that's
why I put together the
book The Hat Man to try
to let people be able
to see their stories
within the whole phenomenon so
they can pick and understand,
he doesn't just do this.
He also does that.
He also speaks.
He says this and that.
So I do have a lot more in there
as far as segments for people
to connect and to relate
what is going on with that.
But it's really, again, I
think it's very, very, very
sad to the extent
that people are having
such horrendous
experiences with them
where they feel their
soul is in jeopardy.
And people are answering
their own questions to me.
They're like, who is he?
He's the devil, isn't he?
Who is he?
He's here for my soul, isn't he?
I'm like, what is
your gut telling you?
You have that gut for a reason.
Don't let me delegate to you.
It's like, trust yourself.
Go with that.
>> NOORY: You've worked
with stories on aliens.
Do you encounter positive
and negative aliens?
>> HOLLIS: I had.
I have not been
abducted, but I've
seen nine grays in my
apartment and shooed them away.
A couple days later
shadow people,
and I grew up in
a haunted house.
So I do have a broad
range of interests.
>> NOORY: Yeah, you sure go.
>> HOLLIS: So I do look into
a lot of different things
because I did experience
a lot of odd stuff.
Some people would say
that's like a medium.
But a medium is somebody
to me that looks into that.
I'm just like, hey, it happens.
I get deja vu to me.
Whatever, I'm going
to live my life.
It happens, OK, and
just address it.
And then going on to
the angel encounter
and then the Jesus
encounters, and people ask me,
was that confusing?
What the heck.
And I'm like, actually the Jesus
encounters brought clarity.
It helped me to understand, this
is what's been warned about,
these negative and
positive things.
>> NOORY: Are you concerned
at all about them?
>> HOLLIS: I'm concerned
for others who don't know
what's going on and how they're
laughing at these topics
and not taking them seriously.
Because they are serious.
But what's that saying?
What was the greatest
thing that the devil ever
did was make people
believe he didn't exist.
>> NOORY: Exactly.
>> HOLLIS: And I'm like, you
better be on top of your game,
people.
So I think it's such
a passion for me.
It's not stressful for me to
be working on these things.
I love it, and
I'll always do it.
>> NOORY: What do you recommend
to people who encounter shadow
people or the Hat Man?
>> HOLLIS: I tell them, whatever
it is that they're showing
an interest in that they're
looking so deep within you,
you need to find what it
is and break that tie.
I don't care.
It's until your last
breath you have a chance
to break that tie.
Even the negative
alien beings, there
are positive alien beings.
There are positive
holy encounter
like beings, angelic
Jesus encounters.
Call upon that.
Find that within
yourself, and know,
and have no doubts
about yourself
and where you stand when
you're met with these things.
>> NOORY: Heidi, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>> HOLLIS: Yeah.
>> NOORY: I
appreciate it always.
>> HOLLIS: Definitely.
>> NOORY: Shadow
people, the Hat Man,
encounters that I hope one day
you don't have to encounter.
But if you do, hopefully you've
learned a little bit more
about them.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."